# Conference abstracts

## Workflow

Please coordinate with others about conference submission. First, make sure that
you can actually go to the conference in question. As a general rule, students
in the group can go to one conference per year to present on the group's budget,
so long as we have funding for that. But it's best to confirm that before
assuming it. Even if you have other funding to go to the conference, you want to
make sure that the conference you have in mind is a good match to the work that
you intend to present, so that it is a good use of your time. Also, it is best
to consult with your co-authors about the readiness of the work for presentation
at a conference. As a general rule, it is much better to miss a conference one
year and present the following year, rather than submitting an abstract
prematurely.

If you are writing an abstract, be sure to double-check the specific
instructions for the conference. Conferences vary widely in terms of the number
of words (sometimes characters) they allow in abstracts, and whether or not they
allow display items. If they do allow display items, it is a good idea to
include a diagram or figure.

Please make sure that you have a first draft for feedback by your co-authors at
least 7 days before the conference submission deadline.

## Content

The abstract title should communicate the findings clearly. Science should only
very rarely be written in the form of a mystery novel, and this is definitely
not one of these cases.

It is important that the abstract provide enough information to conference
participants about whether your presentation is worth a visit. In cases where
results can be laid out clearly, do so within the first few sentences of the
abstract. Generally, the first sentence should provide a funnel to draw
potential interest, outlining what the general question or problem are that the
work is tackling.
