# Papers

The bad news is that writing full papers is one of the hardest things we do.

Where you start writing the paper is often one of the hardest things to decide.
The good thing is that by the time you are writing the paper, you have probably
already done a lot of work that could serve as a starting point.

A good place to start writing is deciding on the figures that would appear in
the paper. They don't necessarily have to be finalized or fully polished, but a
sequence of figures that contain the main results that will appear in the paper
often start to tell the story that the paper will eventually tell.

This then allows you to write down the main results in sequence and see whether
the logic flows.

Another good place to start is by writing down the methods.

Share ideas with co-authors and collaborators early on in the process A google
doc, Overleaf doc, or a GitHub repository are all good places for people to
read/comment/suggest.

## Authorship

Authorship and credit are a sensitive and touchy subject. Authorship should be
discussed early and often, to avoid some of the pitfalls that arise from making
assumptions about authorship. Ideally, project leadership/"ownership" will be
clear enough, so that the identity of the first author(s) will be obvious, but
particular caution needs to be taken in cases where different people are
collaborating closely to generate results that require extensive methods and/or
infrastructure development. In these cases, we can consider shared first
authorship. But this needs to be clarified early on in the development of the
project, so that different people can determine the level of their involvement
if a single first authorship is determined to be the best course of action.

Regarding secondary and collaborating authorships (authorship positions other
than the first and last): Overall, the general philosophy we take is to be
inclusive in authorship. This means that folks who contributed to the work
described in a manuscript while it was being developed can be co-authors if they
are interested. This rewards and encourages people to be involved in other
people's projects and to help move that work along. It is primarily the
responsibility of the first and last author to pay attention to the role that
different people are playing.
